


THEORETICAL DRIVING 
HANDBOOK
TRAINEE

Unit One - Introduction, Traffic Violations, and Traffic Points         4
1. Driving License                                                                                                                                        6
2. Speed and its consequences                                                                                                                 10
3. Traffic Accidents                                                                                                                                        18
4. Traffic Department - Tasks and Importance                                                                                      25
5. Road Parts                                                                                                                                                  39
6. Traffic routing elements                                                                                                                       45
7. Traffic Signs                                                                                                                                             46
7.1 Warning Signs                                                                                                                                           49
7.2 Regulatory signals                                                                                                                                 50
7.3 Guide signs                                                                                                                                               52
7.4 Signs of temporary work areas                                                                                                           54
7.5 Traffic Signs by Type                                                                                                                            55
Unit Two - Behavior                                                                                              68
1. Cooperative behavior                                                                                                                            70
2. Road users have the right of priority emergency                                                                       77
3. Assessing Road Users                                                                                                                          81
4. Driver’s Obligations                                                                                                                             83
5. Passenger transport                                                                                                                               91Contents
Third uni - Traffic                                                                                                     94
1. General driving system                                                                                                                       96
2. Changing lanes                                                                                                                                    103
3. Choosing the correct path to take                                                                                                108
4. Turning and Reversing Turning                                                                                                      117
Fourth Unit  - Crossings                                                                                         120
Crossings                                                                                                                                                             122
1. Road junctions                                                                                                                                    123
1.1 Intersections regulated by traffic lights                                                                                      123
1.2 Intersections organized by a traffic man (hand signals)                                                       128
1.3 Traffic lights “Stop” and “Give way”                                                                                                 129
1.4 Right-of-way rules or priority rules                                                                                                131
2. Pedestrian crossings                                                                                                                             156
3. Railway crossings                                                                                                                                    157
Fifth Unit - Driving speed/driving one by one                                    160
1. General Speed Limiters                                                                                                                         162
2. Criteria for choosing driving speed                                                                                                   169
3. Safety distance                                                                                                                                         180
4. Correct behavior                                                                                                                                      183
5. Economic leadership                                                                                                                         186Contents
Unit Six - Transcendence and General Behavior                               188
1. Driving near vehicles and stationary objects                                                                            190
2. Overtake moving vehicles                                                                                                               196
3. Overtaking prohibitions                                                                                                                   198
4. Requirements for overtaking safely                                                                                              204
5. The issue of overtaking                                                                                                                      205
6. Stopping the vehicle                                                                                                                        208
7. Using vehicle headlights                                                                                                                   217
8. The red control lamp dashboard lights mean                                                                            229
9. Clear view                                                                                                                                                231Contents
2Introduction
Dear trainee,
We have prepared this especially for you with the aim of helping you to get a driver’s license in the 
Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. At the outset, we would like to emphasize that driving a vehicle is an 
important privilege and responsibility for the driver. Now more than ever, it is very important for 
the driver to develop defensive driving skills, meaning not only avoiding the things that distract 
and confuse them inside the vehicle, but also staying alert, and to avoid the mistakes of road users 
because failure to do so can lead to tragic consequences.
This booklet aims to help you to drive safely and prepare you for the driving test, both the practical and 
theoretical, by guiding you in the theoretical sessions and guiding you through the theoretical part of 
obtaining your driver’s license. It contains information that has been dealt with in the same sequence 
as the information contained in the theoretical lessons, but with more detail and clarification. In 
some modules, we have also included additional information on topics relevant for your personal 
use. This additional information is marked in blue and will not be included in the knowledge section 
of the driver’s license test. This handbook is meant to be used not only as a reference but also as a 
practical guide, with additional space for notes. We are confident that these tools will help you better 
prepare for your driving test and we hope that you will use them appropriately.
Once you have obtained your driver’s license, we suggest that you keep this handbook as a reference 
on traffic safety and update it as needed.
Please review and study the information in this brochure carefully, and always keep in mind the great 
responsibility entrusted to you after obtaining a driver’s license in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and 
abroad.
Best regards,
General Traffic Department 
3
“Welcome”
My role is to guide you
throughout the training session!”
4
Unit One
Introduction, Traffic Violations, 
and Traffic Points
5

61. Driving License
Private Driving License
You must meet the following requirements to obtain a private driver’s license:
 • You must be at least 18 years old (exceptions: a temporary permit for a maximum period of 
one year can be issued if the driver has completed his/her 17 years of age)
 • Complete the required training in driving schools
 • Pass the theoretical test and the practical driving test
 • Pay the prescribed fees
 • Pay the traffic fines resulting from previous violations, if any.
A valid driver’s license qualifies you for the following:
 • Your driving license is valid for a maximum of 10 years
 • You can carry a maximum of 9 passengers, including the driver
 • You can drive all kinds of small private vehicles
 • You can drive vehicles with a maximum weight of 3500 kg.
 

7Your private driver’s license contains the following information:
 • The full name of the license holder
 • National ID number / resident ID
 • Date of Birth
 • Files numbers
 • Type of license
 • Blood type
 • Date of issuance
 • Expiry date
 • Nationality

8Public Driving License
Public driving license requirements and validity
 • You must be at least 20 years old to obtain a public driving license
 • The public driving license is valid for a maximum period of 5 years
There are 3 different types of Public Driving Licenses:
 • Category 1 - a taxi driver’s license that allows its holder to drive public taxis with a load 
capacity of no more than eight people
 • Category 2 - Transport license: 
 ○ A light transport license allows its holder to drive small public transport vehicles with a 
total weight of not more than (3500) kg.
 ○ The heavy transport license allows its holder to drive large public or private transport 
vehicles with a total weight of more than (3500) kg.
 • Class 3 – Buses:
 ○ A minibus or private bus license that allows its holder to drive buses that can carry at 
least 15 passengers.
 ○ A large or public bus license that allows its holder to drive buses that can carry more 
than 15 passengers.
 
 

9Public works vehicle driving license
Requirements and validity of a public works vehicle driving license
 • You must be at least 20 years old to obtain a driving license for 
public works vehicles.
 • Driving license for public works vehicles is valid for a maximum 
period of 5 years.
 • The applicant for a public driving license and a public works vehicle driving license should 
not have been previously convicted of a crime of assault of people, honour, or money, unless 
he/she has been rehabilitated.
 • The applicant - of whatever type - should not have been convicted by a court ruling of using, 
manufacturing, smuggling, distributing, or possessing drugs, unless he/she has been rehabilitated.
 • Regular residency for non-Saudis.
 • Lack of diseases and impairments that prevent driving a licensed vehicle.
 • Completion of training hours in driving schools and passing the driving test. The regulations specify 
the number of training hours needed, the test for each license, and the condition for its performance.
 • Paying the prescribed fees. 
 • Paying traffic fines for previous violations, if any.
 Motorcycle driving license
Motorbike driving license requirements
 • Valid for all types of motorbikes
 • You must be at least 18 years old to obtain a motorbike license
 • A motorbike driving license is valid for a maximum of 10 years
For your notes:
102. Speed and its consequences 
Road users 
The road is used by a wide variety of people and vehicles, ranging from pedestrians to a 40-ton truck.
 • Pedestrians
 • Motorcyclists and cyclists
 • Various types of vehicles
 • Light trucks
 • Heavy trucks
 • Buses
 • Public works vehicles

11Although all these different groups use the road and interact with each other, they also travel at very 
different speeds.
For example , pedestrians move at a speed not exceeding 4-5 km/h.
While vehicles are moving at speeds much higher than that, up to 100 km/h.
This difference in speed may create high-risk situations for all road users.
Until now, we pedestrians are basically accustomed to moving at the speed of walking, and we have 
learned over time to master that speed, and humans are not created in a way that they can move 
at high speed - emergency high speed starts from 20-30 km/h. This makes it extremely difficult for 
humans to correctly estimate higher speeds, which is why they need technical assistance from the 
speedometer.
Learning to control high speeds is a process that requires a great deal of experience, and a proper 
assessment of high speeds can only be made through the combined interaction of the eye and the 
mind.
Another danger we face is the fact that we are moving large loads. For example, with the help of a 
vehicle, we can move loads weighing from 1500 kg to 3500 kg at very high speeds, and this can have 
serious consequences in the event of a collision with a vehicle or person.
SPEED? WEIGHT?
12The basic principle when driving a vehicle:
1. The driving speed must always be adapted to the surrounding conditions.
2. The driving speed must be chosen in such a way that it is possible to stop in time to avoid 
a collision with an obstacle and evade other sources of danger.
Can you think of some examples? 
Below are some examples of speed control according to the road conditions:
13Stopping distance:
The stopping distance is the distance the vehicle travels from the moment the driver becomes aware 
of a dangerous situation until the vehicle comes to a complete stop.
The stopping distance is the reaction distance (perception) plus the braking distance.

14Reaction distance (perception):
The reaction distance is the distance traveled by the vehicle from the moment the driver realizes a 
dangerous situation until applying the brakes. Since the “standard” reaction time can be estimated 
as one second, the reaction distance is the distance traveled in one second.
When you see an obstacle or (unexpected) danger on the road and you know that you have to stop 
to avoid an accident, it will take some time to react and move your foot to the brake pedal.
On average, you will need one second to trigger a reaction.
During this time, your car is in motion without decelerating, and the distance it has traveled during 
the time it takes to make a reaction is the reaction distance.
What can you do to trigger a reaction faster? 
When will you need longer to trigger a reaction? 
When does the reaction distance (perception) become longer? 
 • At high speeds
 • If you are distracted or tired
 • If the driver is under the influence of drugs or under the influence of drugs that cause 
drowsiness
 • If the driver is under the influence of alcohol, for your 
For your notes:
15Braking distance:
The braking distance is the distance the vehicle travels from the moment the driver applies the 
brakes until the vehicle comes to a complete stop.
When you depress the brake pedal, your vehicle will cover the braking distance before it comes to a 
complete stop.
We will calculate the braking distance for a relatively strong braking process on a dry road.
The distance may become shorter if you brake as hard as possible (emergency braking).
The distance will be longer if the road is slippery.
When does the braking distance become longer?
 • At high speeds
 • When the vehicle load is heavy
 • Due to poor road conditions (sand or snow on the road, wet surface, etc.)
 • Due to bad tires
 • Due to a malfunction or insufficient brakes 

16 Calculating stopping distances 
Stopping distance = Backlash distance + Braking distance 
Backlash distance = (Speed/3 x 10) 
(Assumption: Reaction time = 1 second) 
Braking distance = (speed/ x (10) speed/10) 
(Assumption: Hard braking on a dry surface)
Given the fact that driving requires decisions to be made in a matter of seconds, it makes sense to be 
able to limit the number of meters a vehicle can travel in a few seconds.
Driving speed Reaction distance Braking distance Stopping distance 
30 km/h 9m 9m 18m
50 km/h 15m 25m 40m
60 km/h 18m 36m 54m 
80 km/h 24m 64m 88m 
100 km/h 30m 100m 130m
120 km/h 36m 144m 180m
17How can you reduce the stopping distance?
 • Reduce speed
 • Increased attention
 Be prepared
 to brake, put your foot on the brake pedal without pressing
 it. Remember that the speed and/or the lack of adapting the
 speed according to the road and traffic situation is the cause
!of many traffic accidents

183. Traffic Accidents 
* Accidents are recorded statistically as injuries if the accident leads to death after more than a month 
has passed from the date of the accident.
** Accidents are recorded statistically as deaths
 • If the accident results in the immediate death of an injured person
 • If the accident resulted in the death of the injured person within one month from the date of 
its occurrence.

19The reasons for the high number of accidents and deaths on the roads in the Kingdom of Saudi 
Arabia:
 • Speeding
 • Failure to comply with the traffic laws 
 • Using a mobile phone while driving and not wearing a seat belt while driving
 • Failure to take the appropriate course and sudden change of course
 • Vehicle and road condition

20Types of traffic accidents
Traffic accidents can be minor or major accidents
 • Minor traffic accidents
 ○ A traffic accident that results in damage to private or public property, but the damage 
does not exceed 5,000 Saudi riyals. 
 ○ A traffic accident that results in a personal injury that does not need to be taken to the 
hospital.
 • Major traffic accidents
 ○ Traffic accidents that result in deaths
 ○ Traffic accidents that result in serious injuries: Injuries that require the patient to be 
transferred to the hospital and undergo an operation. 
 ○ Traffic accidents that result in serious injuries: Accidents that lead to losses in private or 
public funds.

21When does the accident result in legal liability? 
A traffic accident entails legal liability if it is the result of negligence, recklessness, or a violation of 
traffic laws.
The error rate is determined by the percentage of negligence, indifference, or non-observance of 
traffic regulations according to the relative criterion: (100%, 75%, 50%, 25%).
 • Neglect is defined as:
Failure to exercise a certain degree of vigilance under circumstances where the law 
requires the protection of others or their interests that may be adversely affected by 
the absence of such attention.
 • Lack of vigilance or lack of caution is defined as:
A fault resulting from an act committed by the driver indicates a default or 
mismanagement of consequences, where the driver shows willful or intentional 
neglect of law and human life, for example by driving too fast on a crowded street 
causing death or injury to a pedestrian.
 • Failure to observe traffic regulations is defined as:
Failure to comply with the laws in a way that leads to accidents resulting in injuries, 
deaths, or property damage.
For your notes:
22Every driver should do the following in the event of a traffic accident. 
There are two types of accidents: 
1.    An accident that results in injuries:
 • Calling traffic (911/993)
 • Calling the Red Crescent 997 
2.    Accident resulting in damage:
 • Contact Najm, 
 ○ download the Najm application, and take photographs of the accident from all angles. 
 ○ Park the vehicle away from crowds, if possible. 
 ○ Determine the location of the accident, enter the data, and then confirm the phone 
number.

23Consequences of ignoring these laws
 • Failure to comply with these laws will result in a fine of up to two thousand Saudi riyals and/
or imprisonment for up to 3 months
 • Whoever leaves the scene of the accident without reason will be considered a fugitive from 
justice and the relevant authorities will take legal action against him.
Vehicles involved in an accident may only be transported in the following cases
 • The vehicle obstructs traffic or poses a threat to public safety
 • The accident was simple and clear, and the two parties agreed on how it happened. 
The parties to the accident must immediately begin submitting a report containing
 • A statement of the circumstances and location of the accident
 • Type of accident
 • Type of vehicles involved in the accident 
Accidents that result in death or serious injury
 • If the accident results in injury or death, the driver will be stopped for a period not exceeding 
72 hours
 • This period may be extended by the competent court.
 • The driver must be released immediately if a fine is paid or the required insurance policy is 
presented.
Accidents that result in injury, in whole or in part, due to the driver’s consumption of alcohol 
or as a result of drifting
 • The driver is handed over to the public prosecutor of the competent court to file a lawsuit 
against him.
Force majeure
 • The penalty may be waived if the accident was caused by force majeure. During the 
investigation, the driver who was involved in the accident must explain the circumstances 
that led to the accident.
24What can you do to reduce traffic accidents? 
Below are five behaviors that you will lead to a reduction in traffic accidents 
1-
2-
3-
4-
5-
254. Traffic Department - Tasks and Importance 
Traffic employees represent the state and have the right to enforce the law and, therefore, their 
instructions must be followed in all cases, and they can be identified by their uniform or official 
badge.
The responsibilities of traffic employees are to work on monitoring the roads and checking driver’s 
licenses.
Roads and Traffic Department Tasks: 
 • Implementation of traffic controls
 • Prosecuting criminal offenses
 • Taking corrective action for traffic violations
 • Adjusting speed and taking distance measurements 
Proper behavior in traffic controls 
All drivers must abide by traffic regulations on public roads and must follow the instructions of traffic 
employees.
The Traffic Department can also issue orders that conflict with normal traffic regulations and, 
therefore, these instructions must be adhered to and to ensure that no one is exposed to danger.
For example: The light is green and the traffic officer tells you to stop or vice versa. 

26Violations and penalties list 
Violations table (1) in the traffic regulation 
A fine of (100-150) riyals for each of the following violations:
1. Driving the vehicle in markets where it is not permitted to drive.
2. Leaving the vehicle unlocked and running after leaving it.
3. Lack of valid vehicle insurance.
4. Pedestrians crossing roads other than the places designated for them.
5. Pedestrians are not bound by their own signals.
6. Parking the vehicle in places not designated for parking.
7. Not giving priority to pedestrians while crossing the lanes designated for them.
For your notes:
27Violations table (2) in the Traffic Regulations
A fine of (150-300) riyals for each of the following violations:
1. Not to use the turn signal when turning right or left, overtaking, or changing lanes.
2. Reversing on the highway for a distance of more than twenty meters.
3. The motorist or regular bike driver - or the like - gets attached to any other vehicle or pulls or 
carries things that endanger the road user.
4. Violation of the rules for using the convergence lights.
5. Not carrying a driver‘s license or a driver’s license while driving.
6. Misuse of the vehicle alarm.
7. Failure to submit the vehicle for periodic technical inspection.
8. Violation of traffic regulations on the road.
9. Not wearing a seat belt.
10. Placing barriers inside or outside the vehicle that obstruct the driver‘s vision.
11. Failure of the driver to leave sufficient distance between his vehicle and the vehicle in front of 
him, to allow him to avoid an accident.
12. Moving the vehicle at a high speed, so that the tires make a loud sound.
13. Gathering at the scene of the accident.
14. The driver overtaking a group of vehicles in front of traffic lights or security control points using 
the shoulder of the roads or the lane designated for turning.
15. Lack of regulatory requirements for a trailer.
28Violations table (3) in the Traffic Regulations
A fine of (300-500) riyals for each of the following violations:
1. Failure to take the necessary precautions when stopping the vehicle in emergency situations on 
public roads.
2. Throwing objects outside the vehicle.
3. Slowing down in a way that impedes movement.
4. Preoccupation with other than the road while driving the vehicle.
5. Applying the brakes suddenly and unnecessarily.
6. Non-compliance with traffic regulations at road intersections.
7. Failure to comply with the limits of the specified lanes on the road.
8. Making noise by using devices from inside the vehicle, or committing any behavior contrary to 
public morals, while driving.
9. Driving with an expired driver‘s license.
10. Failure to use child safety seats.
11. Leaving the vehicle on a sloping road without taking the necessary precautions.
12. Leaving children under the age of ten in the vehicle without an accompanying adult.
29Violations table (4) in the Traffic Regulations
A fine of (500-900) riyals for each of the following violations:
1. Chasing emergency vehicles while using their sirens.
2. Driving on the road with vehicles designated for acquisition.
3. Not stopping completely at the stop sign.
4. Failure to stop completely at the traffic sign (in front of you is priority) in the event of vehicles 
passing on the road given priority.
5. Not giving priority to the vehicle coming from the right when reaching an intersection with 
equal preferences at the same time and when there are no priority signals.
6. Not giving priority to vehicles on the highway in the absence of a priority signal.
7. Not to abide by the hand signals of the security man when regulating movement and not to give 
his signal priority over traffic lights.
8. Not giving priority to the vehicles inside the roundabout before the vehicles outside it in the 
absence of traffic lights or a traffic man directing traffic.
9. Driving the vehicle inside the tunnels without turning on its lights.
10. Increasing the dimensions of the cargo carried for light transport vehicles to the permissible 
limit.
11. Unnecessarily using the emergency vehicle‘s own alarms.
12. Not giving priority to traffic at junctions or intersections to the driver of the vehicle ahead of 
others in the absence of plates regulating this.
13. If the driver changes his direction of turning backwards, he does not give way to vehicles coming 
from other directions.
14. The failure of the driver, in the event of closing part of the road, to give preference to those 
whose road was open.
15. Failure of the driver who wishes to change lanes to give preference to the driver of a vehicle 
traveling in a straight direction in the event that the two vehicles are running parallel to each 
other.
16. Not giving way to vehicles coming from a highway if they intersect with a secondary road or dirt 
road.
17. Not giving priority to public transportation such as trains or buses and the like if they are on the 
tracks designated for them.
3018. Transporting passengers in places not designated for them in the vehicle.
19. The driver‘s use of any portable device while the vehicle is in motion.
20. Parking in parking spaces for people with special needs other than this permitted category.
21. Placing a writing, drawing, sticker, or any other statement on the vehicle’s body without the 
approval of the competent authorities.
22. Driving a vehicle that pollutes the environment on public roads.
23. Shading the vehicle’s windows without being bound by the controls set by the competent 
department.
24. Using the vehicle for a purpose other than that for which it was licensed.
25. Not covering and fixing the carriage.
31Violations table (5) in the Traffic Regulations
A fine of (1,000-2,000) riyals for each of the following violations:
1. Entry of trucks, heavy equipment and the like into or out of cities at times that are not permitted.
2. Driving a vehicle with a driver’s license that does not match the vehicle’s size and type of use.
3. Stand on the railway tracks.
4. Carrying more passengers than the number specified in the driving license.
5. Refusal to present the driver‘s or vehicle‘s documents to those authorized to view them.
6. 6 Driving a vehicle with unclear or damaged license plates.
7. 7 The vehicle is running without a front panel.
8. 8 Failure to complete the procedures for modifying the area of use of the vehicle.
9. 9 Not to take out the vehicle intended for export within the specified period.
10. Not to wear a helmet while riding a motorcycle.
11. Driving a vehicle before obtaining a driver’s license or in the event of the license being withdrawn.
12. Leaving objects on public roads that endanger public safety.
13. Not giving way to official or emergency procession vehicles.
14. Driving on the shoulders of the road or on the sidewalks or paths in which it is prohibited to 
drive.
15. Disembarking or riding while vehicles are in motion.
16. Pedestrian crossing of highways.
17. Overtaking in areas where overtaking is prohibited, such as curves and hills.
18. Lack of side lighting, reflectors or screens for trucks and trailers.
19. Not using the necessary lights when walking at night or in weather conditions where visibility is 
not clear.
20. Failure to install the panel in its designated place.
21. Gathering at drifting sites.
22. Increasing the dimensions of the payload transported for heavy transport vehicles to the 
permissible limit.
23. Make any modification or addition to the vehicle’s body or structure that changes its features or 
basic equipment without taking the necessary procedures.
24. Driving a vehicle without the necessary equipment, such as brakes, lights, and the like.
25. Use of plates not issued by the competent department.
32Violations table (6) in the Traffic Regulations
A fine of (3,000-6,000) riyals for each of the following violations:
1. Exceeding speed a traffic light while at a red light.
2. Exceeding speed school transport buses when they stop for loading or unloading.
3. Tampering with road signs, reflectors, or signs regulating traffic.
4. Failure to stop at security control centers or checkpoints, or not to stop for the security patrol 
when there is a directive or sign requiring a stop.
5. Using unauthorized devices in the vehicle or placing slogans or posters that are contrary to 
public morals.
6. Driving the vehicle in the opposite direction of traffic.
7. Dribbling quickly between vehicles on public roads.
8. Carrying out a vehicle race on public roads or marching in processions without obtaining a 
permit for that beforehand.
9. Failure of trucks and heavy equipment to drive in the right lane on the multi-lane road.
10. Animal owners should not keep them away from the approved road precincts.
11. Installing equipment in the vehicle, such as those for official vehicles and emergency vehicles.
12. Driving public works vehicles on the roads before taking the necessary measures to avoid their 
damage, including not placing reflective strips on both sides of the rear of the vehicle.
13. Driving the vehicle without a back plate or without plates.
14. Blurring of vehicle plates.
33Violations table (7) in the Traffic Regulations
A fine of (5,000-10,000) riyals for each of the following violations:
1. Driving a vehicle under the influence of intoxicants or narcotics, or drugs under its influence.
2. Carry out road works before coordinating with the concerned department.
3. Animal owners allow their animals to cross from places other than those designated for them, or 
without coordination with the competent authorities.
4. Use of plates that do not belong to the vehicle.
5. Blur the chassis number of the vehicle or attempt to destroy it.
34Violations table (8) in the Traffic Regulations 
1. Speed from 120 km-hour or less.
The speed limit on the road Exceeding the speed limit The fine value in riyals from 120 km - an 
hour or less.
(Minimum - Maximum) 
Exceeding speed by more than 10 km - h to 20 km - h (150-300)
(Exceeding speed by more than 20 km-h to 30 km-h) 300-500
(Exceeding speed by more than 30 km-h to 40 km-h) 800-1,000
(Exceeding speed by more than 40 km - h to 50 km - h) 1,200-1,500
Exceeding speed by more than 50 hours (1,500-2,000) 
2. Speed 140 km-h
The speed limit on the road Exceeding the speed limit The fine is 140 km-hour. 
(Minimum – Maximum)
(Exceeding speed by more than 5 km-h to 10 km-h) 300-500
(Exceeding speed by more than 10 km-h to 20 km-h) 800-1,000
(Exceeding speed by more than 20 km - h to 30 km - h) 1,200-1,500
(Exceeding speed by more than 30 km-h) 1,500-2,000
* Traffic Law issued by Royal Decree No. (M/115) dated 05/12/1439
35Drifting and reckless driving is a traffic violation, punishable by the following:
 • First time: The vehicle is impounded for 15 days and a fine of 20,000 riyals is paid, and the 
authorities should consider imprisoning the driver.
 • The second time: The vehicle is impounded for one month and a fine of 40,000 riyals is paid, 
and the authorities must consider imprisoning the driver.
 • The third time: Confiscation of the vehicle and a fine of 60,000 riyals.
 • Rented or stolen vehicles will not be confiscated, but a fine must be paid in the value of the 
rented or stolen vehicle.
Committing a traffic violation:
A driver who commits a traffic violation must remain inside the vehicle until the traffic policeman 
arrives and approaches the driver and completes the violation registration procedures.
The traffic violation is written in three copies, where one of the copies is delivered to the violating 
driver, while the other two are sent to the competent authorities to register the violation.
This does not include automatically registered violations.
The fine paper fields must be filled out and the offending driver must sign it.
If the offending driver refuses to sign it or is not present, this must be written in the violation.
If the driver is not available or has left the scene of the accident, the vehicle number plate must be 
documented and all details in the violation sheet should be added as closely as possible.
The offending driver will be penalized for each separate offense, even if it is listed on a single sheet 
of paper.
Violations can be paid through the banking phone or automated teller machines, and it is also 
possible to inquire about violations through the Absher website.
Violation Form 
Traffic violations must be dealt with in a unified form for violations.
The General Directorate of Traffic handles the violations record with a serial number and contains 
the following:
36Information related to
 • Driver
 • Vehicle
 • The category of the offense
 • The date, time, and place of the violation
 • The period given to pay the fine
Paying the fine 
The violating driver may pay the minimum fine at the nearest specialized center within a maximum 
period of thirty days from the date of the violation, and he will receive an official receipt upon 
payment of that fine.
If the fine is not paid within the specified period, the competent authority shall obligate the offending 
driver to pay the maximum fine imposed on him.
The executive rules shall stipulate the procedures for recording violations and the specified period 
for paying financial fines.
Scored points
 • A specific number of points are allocated for each violation.
 • The number of points depends on the degree of danger to public safety.
 • Points are recorded in the offending driver‘s record.
 • The driver‘s license will be withdrawn if the number of points reaches 24.
 • Note that the maximum score is 24 points.
For your notes:
37Traffic Violations Points System 
  Violation Points 
1 Driving under the influence of alcohol and drugs 24 
2 Drifting 24 
3 Not stopping while the red light is on 12 
4 Driving against the direction of travel 12 
5 Fast and reckless driving between vehicles on public roads 8 
6 Not complying with the signals of a traffic police officer 8 
7 Driving vehicles without brakes or lights 8 
8 Not completely stopping at the traffic sign „STOP” 6 
9 Not respecting priority rules 6 
10 Exceeding the speed limit by more than 25 km/h 6 
11 Allowing no priority to vehicles in a roundabout 6 
12 Overtaking vehicles in prohibited places 6 
13 Stopping on railways 6 
14 Exceeding the speed limit by not more than 25 km/h 4 
15 Driving on lanes not indented for driving 4 
16 Overtaking school buses when they stop to let students in and out 4 
17 Uncovering or untying transported loads 4 
18 Making additional amendments to the vehicle’s body without following legal procedures 4 
19 Not wearing seat belts 2 
20 Using mobile phones without a hands-free device 2 
21 Not wearing a helmet when riding a motorbike 2 
38Withdrawal of a driver’s license
The procedure for withdrawing a license is applied if the number of violations recorded in the 
violating driver’s record reaches 24 points.
For the first time in one Hijri year: Driver’s license for 3 months is withdrawn 
For the second time in one Hijri year: Driver’s license for 6 months is withdrawn 
For the third time in one Hijri year: Driver’s license for one Hijri year is withdrawn 
For the fourth time in one Hijri year: The driver’s license is permanently revoked. 
The permanent revocation of the license 
If a driver whose license has been revoked is caught while driving a vehicle during the license 
revocation period, he will be treated as not holding a driver’s license and must be referred to the 
competent court to double the penalty. The driver can be directed to attend a 15-day rehabilitation 
program at a driving school.
If the driver’s license is permanently withdrawn, a new one can be applied for one year after the 
date of the license revocation, provided that the driver has completed a one-month rehabilitation 
program at a driving school and passed the theory and practical test.
In the event of temporary or permanent withdrawal of the license, the above applies to all categories 
of driver’s licenses.
395. Road Parts
The road is intended for the movement of vehicles
 • The road may contain several paths, and the features of these paths can be determined on 
the road surface.
 • The highway is a road that is accessed and exited through entrances and exits and does not 
directly serve real estate.
 • The service road directly serves the neighboring properties.

40A residential area and an open town 
are a geographic area located within the city designated 
within the road network.
The open town is the road network outside the cities and 
towns. 
A traffic island. 
The traffic island is a small and elevated area and works to 
divide the movement in two different directions.
A merge lane 
is a lane change that allows traffic to be incorporated into 
a regular road or motorway.

41Intersections 
This term refers to any intersection, crossing, or branching of roads on one or more levels, including 
the area formed as a result.
Types of controlled and uncontrolled intersections:
 • Regulated by light signals
 • Regulated by road signs
 • Regulated by the traffic man, 
Uncontrolled intersections:
 • Without any marks and governed by priority law

42Bicycle lane
A bicycle lane is marked with a mandatory traffic light for cyclists. 
Horse Track
The riding lane is marked by a mandatory traffic light for 
horseback riders. 
The sidewalk/pedestrian lane
A sidewalk or pedestrian path is part of the road and is intended 
for pedestrian use and not for vehicles
A pedestrian crossing 
 • is a specific part of the road that pedestrians are entitled 
to cross
 • Pedestrian crossing paths may be marked with white 
markings on the road.
 • Pedestrian crossing paths are advertised by traffic lights.
The blue circular sign with white lines inside is a mandatory sign indicating the 
sidewalk or pedestrian path. 
The triangular sign with red frames and black lines is a warning sign indicating a 
children’s crossing
Remember 
to never confuse these two signs.
43Proper behavior of pedestrian lanes 
In pedestrian lanes that are devoid of traffic lights or organized by a traffic officer 
when approaching pedestrian lanes.
Drivers must slow down as fast as possible to stop in front of a pedestrian crossing if pedestrians 
want to cross.
The safety of pedestrians should not be endangered while in transit.

44In crosswalks with a pedestrian crossing signal, 
a continuous green light 
allows pedestrians to cross the road but need to monitor traffic.
Blinking green light
An intermittent green light indicates that the pedestrian crossing signal will soon turn red and, 
therefore, pedestrians crossing the road must speed up to cross it, and pedestrians approaching the 
lane must wait and not enter the lane.
Red or orange light
Pedestrians are not allowed to cross pedestrian lanes outside of intersection areas that can be 
indicated by flashing yellow lights.
In this case, pedestrians have priority to cross, but they need to watch traffic carefully, especially in 
areas where drivers are allowed to drive quickly.
Remember 
Did you know that a car weighs 25 times the weight 
of a pedestrian? So always be careful and watch the 
traffic!
456. Traffic routing elements
Traffic routing elements serve the purpose of securing, routing, and managing traffic.
Types of traffic routing elements
 • Rad signs
 • Columns
 • Traffic lights
 • Traffic lights are generally prohibited:
Destruction 
 • alteration of traffic routing elements
 • Remove or change their locations
 • Placing posters or advertisements on poles, lights, road signs, or other traffic directing devices. 
The most prominent road signs:
 • Connected/Double Connected Lines - Crossing Connected Lines is prohibited
 • Broken lines - these lines may be crossed
 • Pedestrian lanes
 • Arrows pointing at directions

467. Traffic Signs
Types of Traffic Signs
Warning Signs
All warning signs are triangular in shape with a red frame.

47Regulatory signs
Guidance signs are circular in shape.
If it is white with a red frame, it indicates a ban.
If they are blue, they are mandatory 
Right-of-way flags 
Right-of-way flags 
have a special shape.
It is usually octagonal or in the form of an inverted triangle.

48Beacons Query tags 
come in rectangular or square shapes and in different colors.
Temporary Work Zone Signals
Temporary Work Zone Signals are yellow with a red frame.
It is usually used to refer to the conduct of road works or alternative roads.
Traffic signs are placed mainly on the right side of the road and are reflective in a way that ensures 
good visibility at night as well as during the day, and all road users must respect and abide by them.

497.1 Warning Signs:
Shape and color:
In general, all warning signs are in the form of a triangle with a vertex at the top. 
It comes with a white background, black icons, and a red frame.
Their purpose:
Warning signs are used to alert and warn drivers and all other road users of existing or potential 
danger or situations on the road, street, or adjacent areas. Warning signs must be placed far enough 
in front of the danger so that the driver can respond to them in a timely manner and not be surprised 
by the presence of that danger in a way that negatively affects his behavior and reaction. Warning 
signs direct the driver to exercise caution and alert him to adapt his speed to the indicated danger to 
ensure his safety and the safety of passengers as well as the safety of all other road users.
Examples of warning signs 
If a narrow road is indicated by a bottleneck symbol, the driver must slow down 
because it may be necessary to stop at that sign if there are oncoming vehicles.
If a low level is indicated, the driver must slow down and perhaps use a lower 
gear to take  advantage of the engine’s braking ability.
507.2 Regulatory signals:
Shape and color:
In general, the guide sign is circular in shape with a white background, black icons, and a red frame, 
with some exceptions, such as:
Their purpose:
Direction signals are used to alert drivers and road users about a set of traffic guidelines, speed limits, 
prohibitions, and obligations (such as a specified driving direction).
These restrictions, prohibitions, and obligations must be adhered to when driving or using the road. 
These signs embody traffic laws and rules, and anyone who violates them is subject to a fine and 
penalty. There are several types and classes of routing signals.
Classification of Directive or Regulatory Signs:
 • Right-of-way signals come in different shapes and sizes
The “stop” 
sign is an octagonal “stop” sign (containing eight corners).
This makes it easy to identify and see from the front and back
 • The “give priority” sign
The “give priority” sign is triangular in shape with the inverted head 
down, which makes it easy to identify and see from the front and back.
51Signs indicating regulated driving directions 
Signals indicating the beginning and end of the minimum speed limit
Restriction signs
 • They usually come with a white background with a red frame and black letters, symbols, or 
numbers.
 • It indicates restrictions such as speed limits
 • It also indicates prohibitions such as no entry.
 • Driving prohibitions signs are circular and indicate specific prohibitions on driving, for 
example driving trucks.
 • Parking lights indicate areas where parking is permitted or prohibited.Driving direction 
signsSpeed limit start and 
end signs
No parking and 
permitted signNo entry sign Speed limit sign No parking and 
waiting sign
527.3 Guide signs
Shape and color:
In general, query signals are rectangular or square in shape and come in different sizes and colors 
and contain different symbols, and their size depends on the length of the message to be delivered, 
and the color of the signal is determined according to the type of message to be delivered as shown 
below.
Their purpose:
Signposts indicate important traffic conditions and provide road users with useful information and 
details regarding road use, and they are primarily used to direct drivers and road users along the way 
to cities, villages, streets, and other destinations.
It also indicates intersections, distances, directions, and utility services as well as important religious, 
geographic, or historical places. In general, these signals provide information to drivers and help 
them take the shortest route to their destination. There are several types and classes of guide signs.
Classification of signs 
blue background with white letters
 • They are usually found outside the city limits or residential neighborhoods.
 • Refers to cities and villages
53Green background with white letters
 • It is usually found within city limits in residential areas
 • Indicates streets and neighborhoods within cities 
White background with black letters
 • Leads to important facilities such as airports or city centers 
Brown background with white letters
 • Refers to farms, entertainment complexes, and museums. 
 • It also refers to religious places
547.4 Signs of temporary work areas 
Shape and color:
The shapes of the temporary work area signs are the same as the shapes of the three main categories 
into which traffic lights are divided (circle, triangle, square, and rectangle) with a different color so 
that it is yellow with a red frame.
Their purpose:
The purpose of the temporary work area signs is the same as the one in which the aforementioned 
warning, regulatory, and guiding signs are used, with a slight difference, which is that they are 
temporarily on the road.
For your notes:
557.4 Traffic Signs by Type
Warning Signs
Intersections 
Turns 
56Warning Signs
Congestion
Pitfalls
Light Signals
 
57Warning signs
Slopes and hills
Road conditions and conditions 
where extreme caution must be exercised
58Warning Signs
Pedestrian Crossing
Animal Crossing
Additional Warning Signs
 
59Regulatory (blocking) and mandatory signs 
Regulatory (blocking) 
Signs prohibiting entry to all and a specific type of road user
60Regulatory signs (blocking)
Limits on trucks
Speed limits
Speeding limits
61Regulatory signals (blocking)
End of all or some of the limits
Parking and parking
Additional prohibition signs
62Regulatory signs (mandatory) 
Speed limit
Signs indicating the direction of traffic
63Road signs Guidance 
Signals outside of the city borders
No Thru Road
End of highway Highway
64Road signs Guidance
Signs to cities and villages
Guidance signs to streets and neighborhoods within cities
Guidance signs to important facilities
Guidance signs to farms, recreational complexes, and museums
65Temporary work area signs
66Temporary work area signs
67
Remember 
it is not enough just to feel safe, you must stay alert 
and take an active role in making the roads in the 
kingdom safe.
68
Unit Two
Behavior
69

701. Cooperative behavior
Correct rules of conduct for road users:
 • Driving safely
The vehicle may only be driven if the driver is in good physical and mental condition and is 
able to drive vehicle safely without endangering others in addition to holding a valid driver‘s 
license
 • Driving with respect
All road users must pay attention to other road users and respect the rights of all other road 
users
 • Driving with caution
All drivers should drive very carefully on public roads
 • Driving legally
You must adhere to the laws, rules, and traffic lights. 
 • Compliance with Traffic Department orders 
Always make sure to follow the instructions provided by the Traffic Department, even if they 
conflict with other instructions, unless they may endanger the safety of the driver or road 
users.
Remember 
What are the things you can do to be a 
helpful driver?
71
Remember 
in general, all drivers must comply with all the traffic regulations at 
all times. In addition, drivers must also comply with the orders of 
the Traffic Department, even if these instructions conflict with other 
laws. In addition, it is important that drivers use sound judgment 
and be careful not to jeopardize their own safety or the safety of 
other road users.
For your notes:
72Examples of other road users
 • Pedestrian
 • Animals
 • Various types of vehicles

73Other road users and their behavior
Pedestrian
How should pedestrians behave? 
 • While walking on the road: 
 ○ Use the sidewalk 
 ○ Walk in the opposite direction of traffic, if you do not 
obstruct traffic or endanger your safety
 • When crossing the road: 
 ○ Watch for pedestrian lights or traffic lights
 ○ Always make sure you don‘t obstruct traffic
 ○ Assess the speed of oncoming vehicles
 ○ Walk quickly without stopping and don‘t walk unnecessarily
Correct behavior at pedestrian crossings 
in crosswalks with a pedestrian light
 • Continuous green light - pedestrians are allowed to cross the road but must also pay attention 
to traffic
 • The intermittent green light indicates the strongest of the light, and the lightest color and, 
therefore, those who entered the street must evacuate it immediately and move quickly. 
Pedestrians approaching a pedestrian crossing should not approach it.
 • Red light - pedestrians are not allowed to cross the road 
At pedestrian zones without a pedestrian light
 • Sometimes pedestrian crossings are indicated by adjacent white lines, in which case 
pedestrians have the right of way but they need to monitor traffic carefully, especially in areas 
where drivers are allowed to drive their vehicles fast.

74Traffic lights in front of pedestrian lines and on them 
On the right you can see a warning sign, and they should be placed farther from the pedestrian 
crossing than the inquiry signal you see on the left.
 

75Correct driver behavior when dealing with pedestrians 
Correct driver behavior
 • When there are pedestrians on the road
 • When approaching pedestrian zones, 
How should the driver act? 
Do not endanger the safety of pedestrians on sidewalks or on the side of the road!
 • When approaching pedestrian zones: 
 ○ Check both sides of the road for pedestrians - look around to see people approaching 
the pedestrian zones 
 ○ slow down and be prepared to stop.
 • At pedestrian zones: 
 ○ Do not obstruct pedestrians who have already started crossing the street 
 ○ if you make a turn at the intersection, you must pay attention to pedestrians at the 
intersection - and if necessary stop until they cross the road

76Guided groups of people and animals
A group of people or herds of animals must be worn by people and animals with reflective belts or 
vests when traveling on public roads. 
Herds of animals
The herds must be guarded
Large flocks should be divided into small groups to facilitate crossing the road
The herds of animals near the road must be monitored
Herds of off-road animals must be securely tied up and out of the way. 
For your notes:

772. Road users have the right of priority emergency 
vehicles such as public security and ambulances.
For your notes:

78Emergency vehicles: 
In road traffic, emergency vehicles on emergency lanes have the highest priority. In an emergency, 
emergency vehicle drivers are not bound by any regulations or prohibitions, but they must not 
endanger their own safety and that of others. 
How to identify emergency vehicles
 • Visual warning signals (red and blue lights)
 • Sound warning signals 
How to deal with emergency vehicles:
 • In order to see emergency vehicles, the escalator must be evacuated.
 • It is prohibited to drive directly behind emergency vehicles, and a distance of at least 50 
meters must be maintained.
 • Drivers must stay on the right side of the road when approaching an emergency vehicle
 • You must not get out of the elliptical parking lot before you throw an emergency vehicle.
 • Intersections must be evacuated quickly to avoid obstructing emergency vehicles 
approaching those intersections

79School buses 
School buses must bear markings indicating that they are intended 
for school transportation. 
Entering and exiting school buses:
 • School buses must stop at specific stations to enable students to get in and out of them.
 • The doors must not be opened until the bus has stopped completely
 • It must be entered from the right side (from the sidewalk)
 • The school bus driver should only drive after making sure that students are safe. 
How to handle school buses:
 • If you miss buses to load or unload students, you must stop other vehicles, and they are 
prohibited from overtaking school buses when they stop to load or drop students off.

80Official processions of road users
How to deal with road users of official processions
Road users should give way to official processions as soon as they announce their approach by using 
audio and light warning devices, provided that they stand on the right side of the road in the event 
of instructions from the competent department and not leave only after passing it or according to 
the instructions issued to them.
How to deal with road users of official processions
Official processions of road users should not be interrupted or their movement obstructed by other 
road users.
For your notes:
813. Assessing Road Users
During road traffic, it is essential to quickly and safely assess other road users. 
For a quick and correct assessment of other road users, the following factors should be taken into 
account:
 • Age
 ○ Special attention should be given to children and the elderly!
 • Attention
 ○ Do people pay attention to traffic? Or are they distracted? 
 ○ It is important to realize the potential intentions of other road users in a short time to 
avoid accidents. 
 
Remember 
if you are not sure about a situation, always 
try to make eye contact with others!
82The problem of road users. 
Children’s
Characteristics of children:
 • Not paying attention or paying attention to traffic
 • Easy to be distracted
 • Acting automatically most of the time
 • Not knowing the traffic rules and/or not complying with them
 • Not properly assessing risks
 • Young age - they cannot accommodate traffic cases, 
The elderly, and people with special needs. 
Characteristics of the elderly:
 • Confusion and high sensitivity
 • Often limited movement
 • Hearing problems and/or vision problems or other problems

834. Driver’s Obligations
Ability to Drive
He must be physically and mentally fit to drive the vehicle! 
Y ou must not drive a vehicle
... When you are injured and cannot use your arms or legs properly 
... When you are sick... When you are very tired
... When you are distracted (e.g. using a mobile phone)
... When you are in a state of irritability, 
you must not drive a vehicle while under the influence of alcohol, drugs, or medication. (If you are 
taking medication, it is important that you read the leaflet carefully!)
Implications
A driver who drives a vehicle under the influence of alcohol, drugs, and/or 
medication will be scored 24 points for violating the traffic rules.

84Remember to avoid distractions - such as distractions by operating devices inside the vehicle, using 
a mobile phone, eating, and drinking - while driving to keep yourself safe on the road and others.
For your notes:
85Obligations and prohibitions of dealing with vehicles
Obligations of the driver before driving
 • The driver must ensure that all the necessary equipment is available
 • The driver must ensure that the vehicle is in good condition and is safe to drive on the road 
so that it does not obstruct or endanger other road users.
 • The driver must do the following: 
 ○ Clean the windows, lights, and mirrors.
 ○ Ensure there is no damage to the windows, lights, mirrors, and tires. 
 ○ Check the condition of the lights, controls, and brakes.

86
Remember 
Remember to make sure your sitting posture is 
correct. Adjust the mirrors and fasten the seat belt, 
including the driver and passengers.
For your notes:
87Obligations of the driver while driving
Follow the traffic rules
Drive on the paved area of the road and stay in the 
appropriate lane and at the speed limit. Let other drivers 
know what you are going to do. For example, don’t forget 
to give a signal if you  want to go left or right.
For your notes:

88Taboo
 • Visual or acoustic warning signals
 ○ Use emergency warning or warning signals only
 ○ Do not disturb pedestrians or the general atmosphere
 ○ Do not use warning signs with multiple tones or beeps
 • Do not turn off the engine while driving
 • Do not make noise when using the vehicle
 • Do not attach covers or blinds to the vehicle
 • Do not place inscriptions, drawings, and advertisements on the vehicle
 • The driver must not obstruct the movement of other vehicles or other road users.
 • Do not allow the vehicle to roll onto a slope while the engine is turned off.

89Taboo
 • Do not carry people outside the passenger space
 • Do not wash or repair the vehicle on public roads
 • Do not spit or throw garbage out of the vehicle while driving
 • Do not use the vehicle in processions or rallies without permission
 • Vehicles must not be driven in processions or parades (unless permitted by the authorities).
 • In the event of any malfunction that may affect traffic while driving, the road must be cleared 
immediately and the driver must drive on a side street where traffic is not obstructed. 
Remember 
While driving - if your vehicle breaks down, remove 
it from the road and secure it if possible. During the 
day: Place a clear warning sign within the stopping 
distance. During the night: Ensure to also secure the 
vehicle with red lights.
90Obligations of the driver after stopping the vehicle:
 • When leaving the vehicle, the driver must ensure to:
 ○ Turn off the vehicle
 ○ Remove the keys
 ○ Close the vehicle
 • The driver and passengers of the vehicle must ensure that no one is exposed to danger when 
the vehicle doors are opened.
 • You must stand on the side of the sidewalk. 
Remember 
to ensure that the vehicle is not left unlocked, 
the engine is not running, and the key is not left 
inside it.

915. Passenger transport: 
In general:
Passenger transport 
... It is only allowed in vehicles intended for the carriage of passengers
... It is forbidden to transport passengers by truck or heavy machinery
... It is prohibited to carry passengers in the trunk of the vehicle or any external part of the vehicle.

92Using a seat belt
The driver and all other passengers must use a seat belt while driving on the roads. The driver must 
alert the passenger to put on the seat belt. 
Exceptions to the seat belt law:
 • Persons who cannot wear a seat belt for health reasons (medical evidence and permission 
from official authorities are required)
 • People who are unable to wear a seat belt because of their sizes.
Transporting children
A support belt should be placed for children under the age of 
12 so that the seat belt is under the shoulder. Children under 
the age of 10 must not be placed in the front seat 
Except: 
If the rear seats are not available, the child can be placed in the front (using a child-friendly seat).   
Remember 
to make sure that every passenger wears a seat 
belt - and that every child is seated in their own 
safety seat.  
93Entry and exit of passengers
In the event of parking on a public road or on the road, you must exit and enter from the right side, 
and passengers must enter and exit the vehicle from the sidewalk area.

94
Third uni
Traffic
95

961. General driving system
In general
 • Vehicles must always be driven on the paved part of the road.
 • The driver must obey all the normal traffic lights unless directed by a traffic man.
 • The driver must not exceed the specified speed limit.
 • The driver must allow other vehicles to pass safely.

97The rule of the right lane 
has two lanes with a broken line
If the paved roads are divided into two opposite lanes through a broken line, the driver must drive 
on the right lane and not cross this line to the other lane unless he wants to overtake another vehicle 
in front of him.

98Right lane rule 
Two lanes with a double continuous line 
If the paved roads are divided into two opposite lanes by a double continuous line, drivers are 
prohibited from crossing this line to the other lane.

99Driving side by side
If the road is divided into several lanes, then the vehicles can go side by side in a parallel direction on 
those lanes. However, slower vehicles must use the lane on the far right unless you are preparing to 
turn left or in the opposite direction in the form of a reverse turn. 
Before changing lanes, the driver must ensure that this does not endanger others, and he must 
clearly show his intent and warn others.

100
Remember 
this is a good example of how efficient traffic can 
be when the majority of drivers adhere to road 
signs correctly.

101Driving on the far right side of the road
The driver must stay on the far right side of the road:
 • If he wants to turn right
 • If other vehicles are about to overtake him
 • If his vehicle speed is less than the speed limit
 • If the vision is poor
 • If there are vehicles coming from the opposite direction to your observations:
For your notes:
102Driving on the left side of the road
 • Driving on the left side of the road is only permitted if
 • It was necessary to prevent accidents and not to impede or endanger other road users
 • Driver‘s desire to overtake other vehicles (only if overtaking is permitted and can be done 
without obstructing or endangering other road users)
 • Part of the right-hand side has been blocked off (e.g. by a construction site), and there is a 
signal to pass by the traffic department, other security forces or road workers. 
Driving on narrow roads
When approaching jams, motorists should stay on the far right side of the road to maintain a 
sufficient side distance for the passage of vehicles coming from the other direction, and if necessary 
they should stop their vehicles until other vehicles from the opposite direction pass and not use the 
horn except when absolutely necessary.

1032. Changing lanes
It is necessary to change lanes in the following cases:
 • obstacle avoidance
 • Choose the correct lane before turning
 • Overtaking other vehicles
 • If the driver wants to stop on the left side of the road (and only if he is allowed to do so) 
Before changing lanes
 • The driver must ensure that this maneuver does not endanger him or others
 • The driver must clearly show his intent and alert others to the general behavior when 
changing lanes
Ensure that it is not prohibited by traffic lights
 • You must be able to change lanes without endangering yourself or other road users
 • Your decision to change course must be indicated before you actually do so

104Blind Spot
Remember 
if you rely only on the side mirrors, it won’t 
be long before you hit a vehicle in your 
blind spot! Because you can only see those 
vehicles if you look over your shoulder.

105Change paths: (left or right) 
Before changing lanes, the driver must ensure that other road users are not obstructed or endangered. 
This is why you should always check your mirrors first, then signal (blink), blind spot over the driver’s 
shoulder and speed before taking this step. 
Mirrors 
Shoulder Signal
Speed
Changing lanes
Remember 
Always remember: the faster you 
drive, the more safely you have to 
steer the vehicle.

106Change lane to the left
Check traffic on the opposite side
Mirrors
Signal
Shoulder
Speed
Move
Change lanes with smooth steering motions

107Changing lanes to the right
Check the traffic on the opposite side
Mirrors
Signaling
Shoulder
Speed
Moving
Change lanes with smooth steering movements
1- Interior mirror
2- Right exterior mirror
3- Signaling right
4- Right shoulder
Speed adjustment
Moving: Steering smoothly

1083. Choosing the correct path to take 
The following must be considered before moving to the correct path to change the path:
 • Ensure that the turn is not blocked by traffic lights or other signals that prevent the turn
 • A timely change of lane or a turn must be indicated by the turn signals
 • Other road users must not be at risk
 • You have to stick to the road signs that indicate driving directions. 
Remember 
choosing where to park your vehicle 
can be a real challenge! That is why it is 
important to plan in advance to choose 
the right path.
109Choosing the correct lane/right position on the road 
If there are no signs on the road (no arrows indicating directions): To turn right:
 • The driver must turn right from the far right side of the road 
To turn left:
 • On a two-way street, the driver must move to the middle of the road. If there is a dividing line, 
the driver must remain to the right of the dividing line.
 • On one-way roads, the driver must turn left from the left side of the road 
To turn (horseshoe shaped):
 • On a two-way street, the driver must move to the middle of the road. If there is a dividing line, 
the driver must remain to the right of the dividing line
 • On roads that are one-way or have an island in the middle, the driver must make a U-turn 
from the left side of the road (to the right of the island).

110If there are road signs (there are arrows indicating directions): 
To turn right: 
The driver must turn right from a lane where there is an arrow pointing to the right 
To make a left turn: 
The driver must turn left from a lane where there is an arrow pointing to the left. 
Turning backwards (in the form of a horseshoe): 
The driver must make a U-turn from the lane where there is an arrow pointing to the U-turn.

111Planning ahead 
Suppose you are approaching an intersection with multiple lanes for each driving direction and you 
want to turn left. 
Remember 
in this case, you need to plan in advance, 
as the correct lane will depend on your 
lane after turning left!

112Planning ahead – Example 1
If you want to turn left here and then right at the next intersection... 
Step 1
... You have to take the first of the three lanes available for the possibility of a left turn... 
Step 2
... Then, continue down this path. 
                                       Step 1                                                                                       Step 2

113Planning ahead - Example 2 
If you want to turn left here and then go straight at the next intersection... 
Step 1
... You have to take the second of the three lanes available for the possibility of a left turn... 
Step 2
... Then, continue down this path. 
                                       Step 1                                                                                       Step 2

114Planning ahead 
Example 3 If you want to turn left here and then turn left at the next intersection... 
Step 1
... You have to take the third lane of the three available lanes for the possibility of a left turn... 
Step 2
... Then, continue down this path. 
                                       Step 1                                                                                       Step 2

115Planning in advance at the roundabout
 
Approaching 
the 
roundaboutAt the 
roundabout Roundabout 
departure
Turn right
(Exit 1)track 1 track 1 track 1
Driving 
straight (Exit 2)(Track 2), 
if available(Track 2), 
if available(Track 2)
if available
Turn left
(Exit 3)(Track 3),
if available(Track 3),
if available(Track 3)
if available
Rotation
(exit 4)(Track 3),
if available(Track 3),
if available(Track 3)
if available

116Giving a signal at the roundabout
12
3
Remember 
if all drivers abide by these rules, traffic 
will be smooth around the roundabout 
without any problems.  
For your notes:
1174. Turning and Reversing Turning
Turn 
 • Each turn must be signaled early enough by the turn signal
 • The driver must slow down the vehicle early and not apply the brakes dry patiently unless it 
is necessary for mileage purposes.
 • He must be well-groomed and have a decisive enough distance between him and the vehicle 
or the vehicle in front of him. 
Turning right 
You must turn right through a narrow bend and stay on the far right side of the road.

118Turning to the left
The left turn must be done through a wide curve and turn to the right side of the other road.

119Reversing
 • This must be clearly indicated
 • It is not permissible to drive backwards on public roads except in cases of necessity and for 
a short distance that does not exceed a maximum of 20 meters (reverse driving is prohibited 
on highways).
 • Before backing up, the driver must ensure that the road is clear of vehicles and that reversing 
will not endanger the safety of other road users.

120
Fourth Unit 
Crossings 
121

122Crossings 
Crossings are places where other roads, railways, or other road users intersect. 
Therefore, other road users may cross from the left or the right, which may lead to dangerous 
situations. 
To avoid accidents, those crossings are specially marked and secured.   
Remember 
intersections can be regulated by traffic 
lights or traffic lights. If not, drivers must 
respect the rules of right-of-way.
 

1231. Road junctions
Various road junctions can be regulated by traffic lights or traffic police signals. If the intersection is 
not controlled by traffic lights or traffic lights, drivers must respect the right-of-way rules. 
1.1 Intersections regulated by traffic lights
 
Traffic lights
Traffic lights are announced by warning signs

124Sequence and meaning of traffic lights
 • Red light – stop
 ○ When the red light appears, vehicles must stop at the stop line or must not 
go beyond the level of the traffic light pole. If there is no stop line, 
 ○ the driver must stop where he can see the traffic lights. 
 ○ The driver must not pass the pedestrian crossing after stopping at a red 
light. The driver may turn right unless prohibited by a traffic light. In any 
case, the driver must ensure that it is possible to turn safely.
 • Green light - driving permission 
 ○ When the light turns green, the driver must start driving within a reasonable 
time. 
 ○ If traffic slows or stops and the driver cannot cross the intersection, he must 
not enter the intersection area despite the right-of-way or the green light.
 • Yellow/orange light - Attention/Stop 
 ○ If it is possible to stop without endangering oneself or other road users, the 
driver of the vehicle must stop and must not cross the stop line.

125Sequence and meaning of intermittent light signals
 • Intermittent red light: 
 ○ It has the same meaning as the stop sign. 
 ○ The driver must stop at the stop line or at the level of the traffic light pole. 
 ○ If a red intermittent light is installed at a pedestrian crossing or at a railroad junction, the 
driver must not cross the pedestrian or railroad. It must not move before pedestrians or 
railway vehicles are cleared of the way.
 • Intermittent yellow/orange light: 
 ○ It has the same meaning as a right-of-way signal 
 ○ allows the driver to continue driving with great care and caution.
Remember 
that although a flashing red light has the same 
meaning as a stop sign, it is always a good idea 
to observe your surroundings and make sure it is 
safe to stop before doing so when approaching 
a flashing red light.  

126Turning right when there is a red light
 • Drive your vehicle on the far right side of the road and stay there as much as possible
 • Signal to the right while turning right when the red light is present
 • Stop the vehicle once (for 2-3 seconds) before making a right turn
 • Move slowly when turning to the right (your speed must be less than 15 km/h)
Remember 
even if right turns are allowed, make sure to stop 
and pay close attention while near people and 
vehicles!   

127Y ou are not allowed to turn right when there is a red light
 • If there is a certain lane (other lane) to turn right (in which case you have to take that lane and 
you are not allowed to turn right at that intersection)
 • If there is a signal prohibiting turning in the presence of a red light, 
Remember 
to take a picture by the “automatic monitoring” camera, 
which does not necessarily mean imposing a penalty on 
you, as every picture taken by the cameras is manually 
checked by the staff before imposing the penalty. If you 
stick to the rules above, don’t worry.   
For your notes:
1281.2 Intersections organized by a traffic man (hand signals) 
Ifu arrive at an intersection organized by a traffic man directing traffic, you must comply with the 
traffic man’s signs and instructions because he has the highest priority and their instructions must 
be respected.

1291.3 Traffic lights “Stop” and “Give way” 
A stop sign 
The driver must stop the vehicle completely. Remember to stop 
for 3 seconds to keep an eye on traffic or other road users from all 
directions. 
Right-of-way signal 
Give way to other drivers. If you see any vehicle approaching the 
intersection, slow down and stop if necessary to allow it to pass. The 
driver must give way to other traffic on the road, giving priority to 
road users approaching from the right or left.

130Both signs can be alerted with warning signals. 
The stop traffic sign                                                is alerted by this warning sign    
The priority right traffic sign                              is alerted by this warning sign:
The characteristics and purpose of these two signals are presented in the second unit.   
For your notes:
1311.4 Right-of-way rules or priority rules
Priority rules must be observed at intersections that are not controlled by a traffic light or by a traffic 
man: 
Be prepared to warn of an intersection in front of you by means of traffic lights or the instructions of 
a traffic officer:
132Emergency rules
Vehicle priority
 • The right of priority must be given to emergency vehicles while performing their duties.
 • Emergency vehicles always have priority
 • The driver must clear the way for emergency vehicles as soon as possible.

133Rules for crossing intersections where no road is better than other roads (equal roads)
 • The vehicle closest to the intersection has priority.
 • Right rule before left

134Priority of the vehicle closest to the intersection
If two vehicles approach an intersection equally but not at 
the same time, the vehicle closest to the intersection (the 
vehicle that enters the intersection first) has the right of 
priority. 
The white vehicle (B) is the closest and will enter the 
intersection first, so priority will be given to the white 
vehicle (B). 
Although the vehicle closest to the intersection has priority over other vehicles, the driver of the 
advancing vehicle must monitor the traffic and assess the situation (for example, if there is a change 
in the distance of the other vehicle). The driver closest to the vehicle must not stop or change 
direction in such a way as to cause an accident. 
Example: The white car (A) has the right of way.

135Right Before Left Rule 
If two vehicles approach an equal intersection at the 
same time, the vehicle on the right side has the right-
of-way. 
The most important thing is from which direction the 
vehicles are approaching the intersection, not which 
direction they are heading. 
The two vehicles approach the intersection at the same time on equal roads, and here the right-of-
way is given to the white vehicle (A) traveling on the right side. 
Example: Here, the gray vehicle (B) has priority, not the white vehicle in the three examples 
below.
 

136Driving Forward 
Step 1 
Vehicles driving in a straight line have priority over vehicles changing lanes. 
Step 2 
The white vehicle (B) has priority over the red vehicle (A), which is preparing to turn left.

137Driving Forward - Parallel Movement 
Step 1 
For vehicles traveling in a parallel line, a driver traveling in a straight line has priority over a driver 
wishing to change direction. 
Step 2 
The white vehicle (B) has priority over the red vehicle (A) because vehicle (B) is traveling straight 
while vehicle (A) is changing direction.

138Driving Forward - Parallel Movement
Step 1 
A driver who is driving straight ahead has the right of way to overtake drivers who are changing 
direction. 
Step 2 
The driver of the white vehicle (C) who is driving straight ahead has priority in crossing and overtakes 
the driver of the red vehicle (A) who is changing directions.

139Driving Forward - Closed Road 
Step 1 
If two drivers meet on a (partially) closed two-way road, priority is given to the driver with the road 
ahead of which is open on the right. 
Step 2 
The driver of the white vehicle (B) has the right of way over the driver of the red vehicle (A) because 
the road ahead of the driver of the white vehicle is open on the right side. 
The driver can use the left side of the road if the right side is closed due to construction work or other 
reasons. 
When a section of a two-way road is closed, the driver must comply with the instructions of the traffic 
department, other security forces or road workers. 
If two drivers meet on a (partially) closed road, they must both reduce speed and stop if necessary 
to avoid an accident.

140Driving uphill on a mountain road on a steeply sloping road
A driver heading down the ramp must get as close as possible to the right edge of the lane. He must 
allow the passage of ascending vehicles without difficulty and, if necessary, the driver must come to 
a complete stop. 
An exception: If there is an emergency parking area on the side of the driver trying to ascend, the 
driver must wait and allow the vehicle to pass down the ramp.
For your notes:
141Entering the highway

142Highway:
Step 1:
The driver on the highway has the right of way compared to the driver coming from a secondary 
road.
Step 2:
The driver of the white vehicle (B) has the right of way because he is on the highway.

143The highway:
When entering from a secondary road to the highway, the driver must ensure that the road is clear 
and give way to vehicles driving along the highway.
The driver on the highway must give the driver coming from the secondary road an opportunity to 
enter.
Step 1:
When entering from a secondary road, the driver must give way to drivers on the highway.
Step 2:
The driver of the white vehicle (B) drives his vehicle on the highway and, therefore, has priority over 
the red vehicle (A).

144The main path - correct cooperative behavior:
The driver of the white vehicle (B) gives the driver of the red vehicle (A) the opportunity to enter the 
highway.

145Exit the highway.

146The highway.
Step 1:
Traffic priority is given to vehicles leaving the highway to the service road.
Step 2:
When coming from the highway, the driver of the white vehicle (B) has the right of way over the red 
vehicle (A).

147The main path - cooperative behavior:
When coming from the highway, the driver of the white vehicle (B) has priority over the red vehicle 
(A). If possible, the driver of the red vehicle must open the way for the white vehicle.

148Intersection with roundabout

149Roundabout intersection:
driver approaching an intersection that forms a roundabout must give way to vehicles traveling 
around the roundabout.
The white vehicle is driving in a roundabout, so the driver of the white vehicle (B) has priority over 
the red vehicle (A).

150U-shaped rotation at the intersection

151U-shaped rotation at an intersection.
The driver is only allowed to turn in a U-shape at intersections if there is no traffic signal or traffic light 
preventing this.
Priority is given to vehicles coming from any other direction.
The red vehicle (A) will turn backwards in a horseshoe shape, so the white vehicle and the gray 
vehicle (B + C) have right of way. The white vehicle enters the intersection first - it is the first to be 
allowed to pass.

152Closed Back Rotation:
When entering a closed horseshoe curve, give way to all vehicles approaching the turn and move 
to lane one when the road is clear of vehicles. Do not use parking lanes or sidewalks for horseshoe 
turns.
    
Open Back Rotation:
When entering an open horseshoe curve, give way to all vehicles approaching the curve and move 
to the second lane when the road is clear of vehicles to allow vehicles coming from the junction to 
enter.
    

153Protected reverse rotation:
General rules of conduct at intersections:
 • Drivers should approach the intersection cautiously and reduce the speed in a way that 
allows them to stop before reaching the crossing if other road users have priority to cross.
 • If drivers cannot cross an intersection, they must stop before reaching the crossing, even if 
they have right-of-way or with a green light. If there is danger of the driver getting stuck at 
the intersection (due to slow or stopped traffic), he must avoid entering the intersection from 
the start.

154Importance of priority rules:
The priority rules are intended to make clear when drivers must give way to other road users.
These rules play a vital role in ensuring safety on the roads of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia.
Compliance with these rules can contribute not only to ensuring the safety of traffic, but also to 
reducing traffic accidents and minimizing their tragic consequences.
It is, therefore, important for all drivers to be aware of these rules in order to fully comply with them 
whenever and wherever necessary without any hesitation.
Adhere to the rules of right-of-way 
in unclear cases if the driver encounters a situation in which it is not clear which vehicle has right-of-
way, for example:
 • When more than one vehicle stops at the crossing point
 • When another road user is clearly unable to comply with the priority rules 
In the above cases, it is recommended to
 • Make eye contact with the other road user.
 • Refrain from using your right of way and making room for others if doing so helps avoid an 
accident.
Remember 
In order to get a better feel for the importance of 
right of priority rules, we suggest that you return 
to Module 1 and look at the penalties.
155What to do at the crossings.
Entering the crossing.
Looking around.
Evaluate the situation.
Make a decision.
Act.
Approach the crossings.
Check mirrors.
Give a signal.
Vehicle positioning.
Speed.
Looking around.
What do you do before entering a fork in the road?
Looking around:
Check on both sides and check that there are no others on the way.
Status Rating:
Speed, age, attention, intent, and distances.
Make a decision:
Is it safe to continue walking and enter the fork? 
Act:
Should I wait or move?

1562. Pedestrian crossings:
Where can you see these signals? 
    
Do you remember how to behave at pedestrian crossings? 
Passenger cars and bicycles:
Passenger cars and bicycles are given priority over other slow-moving vehicles. 

1573. Railway crossings

158Railway vehicles have priority over other vehicles.
Drivers must immediately evacuate the railway tracks when the railway vehicle approaches.
Securing railway crossings and advance warning.
 • Barriers.
 • Guard - drivers of vehicles must abide by the 
location of the barriers or guard.
 • Traffic lights: Red or yellow - indicates that the 
train is approaching. Vehicle drivers must. Do not 
cross the railway line. 
 • Bell signals - an audible warning of an approaching 
train. Vehicle drivers should not cross the railway 
line. 
The railway lane may only be crossed when the sign indicates that it is safe and the driver must make 
sure before that there is no train approaching.
If traffic stops or slows down and the prospect of stopping at a railway lane becomes dangerous, the 
driver must not enter the railway crossing.
    

159Stop at a railway crossing:
Vehicle drivers must stop before the X signal.
 • When the train approaches. 
 • When there is a red or yellow light signal.
 • When the gates are moving or when they are closed.
 • When a guard signals to stop.
 • If the traffic and crosswalks do not allow the crossing.
At railway crossings or railway tracks it is prohibited:
 • Stop on rails.
 • Parking of vehicles on the railways.
 • Driving along the rails.
Behave when crossing.
Wait until the gates are fully opened and the red light is 
off before entering the railway crossing.

160
Fifth Unit 
Driving speed/driving one by one  
161

1621. General Speed Limiters:
Small vehicles:
If there is no indication of another speed limiter, drivers of small vehicles must not exceed the next 
speed limit.
 • Sub-roads    according to the speed specified for the road.
 • The highways    according to the speed specified for the road.
    

163Large vehicles.
If there is no indication of another speed limiter, drivers of large vehicles must not exceed the next 
speed limit.
 • City roads within cities     50 km/h maximum.
 • Outside the city limits/open borders   depending on the speed of the road.
    

164Traffic lights can also indicate other speed limits.
There is also a traffic light indicating the end of the speed limit:
Remember 
if there is no other speed limiter, you must 
stick to the speed limiter after this sign.
Remember 
Don’t feel compelled to drive fast, as these 
signs just show you the limit!

165Situations in which the speed must be reduced below the minimum speed
 • At night.
 • When strong sunlight appears.
    

166Situations in which the speed must be reduced below the minimum speed
 • During fog
 • During rain
 • During sandstorms as well as according to the road conditions
    

167An exception:
Emergency vehicles can exceed the speed limit, but this should not endanger the safety of others.
Remember 
Always be aware of what is happening 
around you while driving so that you can 
allow emergency vehicles to pass easily.

168Traffic lights can also indicate the minimum speed limit.
                                                    Minimum speed                                           End of minimum speed 
 • These signals indicate to the driver not to drive at a speed slower than the minimum speed.
 • (Illegible): The driver can drive by a car if required by a situation or safety measures.
1692. Criteria for choosing driving speed
The driver must always adjust his speed according to the general conditions and road conditions, 
regardless of the maximum permissible speed.
He must ensure his safety and the safety of those with him in the vehicle and the safety of other road 
users at all times.
He must also adapt the vehicle’s speed to be able to stop in time in the event of a stop sign or barrier.

170Y ou should reduce your driving speed:
 • When approaching intersections or any kind of crossings
 • Before the curves
 • When crossing bridges
 • When crossing railway crossings
 • When driving through tunnels
 • When the level of vision is low
 • On slippery roads (the presence of water, sand, snow, ...)

171How fast do you think you can go in these specific situations? 
                            After this signal?                                                                         In this curve?
                               In this case?                                                                                 On this road?
 

172
Remember 
there is no single correct answer to any of the cases presented above, as 
the images merely provide a catalyst for discussion in order to illustrate the 
following:
You must evaluate each case individually.
If you feel unsure about one of these situations, it is best to drive a little 
slower.
For your notes:
173To drive at a safe speed, you must consider the following:
 • traffic movement
 • The possibility of obstacles on the road or other road users
 • Road conditions
 • The condition of your vehicle must be known. 
Remember 
Be careful not to endanger people or 
animals, and always make sure that you can 
stop in time!

174Other examples where it is important to reduce speed:
 • If the road is not a highway
 • In the winding places of the road
 • During busy traffic
 • When approaching bumps
 • When approaching or passing a group of pedestrians
 • When approaching or passing animals, especially when the animals show signs of anxiety 
and tension, 
It is prohibited to race vehicles on public roads inside or outside the city limits! 

175Speed kills!
Remember 
the driver was clearly driving his vehicle very 
fast.
176Drifting is an illegal form of road racing 
Drifting is a form of racing in which vehicles are driven at extremely high speeds of about 160 to 260 
km per hour on wide highways. At the same time, the vehicle swayed to the left and right, and in this 
case, drivers often drive their vehicles close to traffic, barriers, and dangerously close to onlookers 
watching from the sides of the road without any protection. Be aware that many horrific traffic 
accidents occur as a result of drifting.
177A vivid example of how fast you drive 
doesn’t have to be a race to put your life at risk.
Driving at a speed of no more than 10 km per hour above the 
permissible limit and not wearing seat belts is sufficient to 
cause serious injury.
Imagine:
You are traveling at a speed of 50 km/h and suddenly a truck 
comes out of the intersection in front of you, you are afraid and 
you apply the brakes hard and you can stop in time.
Now imagine the following:
You are traveling at 60 km/h (10 km/h faster than in the first 
case) and suddenly the truck comes out of the fork in front of 
you again, you get scared again, and you hit the brakes hard 
but this time you can’t stop in time.
The truck will hit 40 km/h in the second example! 
If you or a passenger were not wearing seat belts, the effect of the physical force would have been 
as if you had jumped from a third-floor window and hit the ground after falling from only 6.5 meters 
because you were driving 10 km faster than the speed in the first example.

178On the other hand, you are also banned
 • Obstructing the movement of other vehicles by driving very slowly without any convincing 
reason.
 • Suddenly slow down or brake hard unless it is necessary for safety reasons .
If you slow down, you must indicate this in time.
 • Brake lights at the rear of the vehicle
 • hand signs

179The driver and passengers must use their seat belt. 
Remember 
in the event of an accident, uninsured 
persons or objects can seriously injure other 
passengers!

1803. Safety distance 
Drivers who are driving behind other vehicles or preparing to pass other vehicles in front of them 
must maintain a sufficient distance to avoid an accident.

181Safety distance 
If the driver of the front vehicle suddenly slows down or stops due to an emergency, the driver in the 
rear vehicle must be able to respond in time to stop his vehicle safely.
Reasons for increasing the safety distance
 • Bad road conditions (e.g. wet or sandy road)
 • Driving behind vehicles on a one-lane road (e.g. motorcycles )
 • Driving a heavily loaded vehicle
    

182The dangers of driving behind other vehicles without leaving a good distance 
Remember 
Driving without leaving a safe distance increases 
the possibility of hitting vehicles in front of you. 
Why? Because you don’t have enough time 
to stop when the driver of the vehicle in front 
applies the brakes

1834. Correct behavior
This driver is driving his vehicle without keeping a safe distance.
The minimum distance to drive behind another vehicle is two seconds!

184The two-second rule (one thousand one thousand two) is two seconds
You should regularly check the following distance, especially when driving at higher speeds behind 
other vehicles (e.g. on the highway or the open road).
Step 1:
Look for a reference point such as a traffic light or a tree, a mast close to the road or you can look for 
a sign or shadow on the road.
Step 2:
Start after seconds when the back of the vehicle in front of you is at that reference point.
Step 3 
Keep counting until the front of your vehicle reaches the reference point. You must count at least two 
seconds; otherwise, the distance between you and the vehicle in front is not safe.
                          Step 1                                                      Step 2                                                    Step 3

185
Remember 
you should leave a larger distance in case of 
changing weather conditions, such as storms, 
dust, rain, and poor road conditions.

186Importance of Maintaining Large Relay Distances:
By applying the driving style and looking forward at the same time, you will find that you have more 
time to respond to situations and emerging dangers. What is required is less pressure on the gas 
pedal and a greater percentage of safety and security.
5. Economic leadership
One of the key components of economic leadership is a forward-looking leadership style.
This means taking your foot off the gas pedal and making the car decelerate without depressing the 
brake pedal, e.g. a red traffic light so no fuel is used while approaching the traffic light and this also 
reduces brake wear.
The thing to avoid is to stop the car unnecessarily, as starting it again requires a lot of energy. But if 
it must be stopped and the car has an automatic start/stop function, then you can stop to save fuel, 
as this feature turns off the engine when the car is stopped and the engine restarts automatically as 
soon as you take your foot off the brake pedal.
If you drive the car without using the start/stop function, you can save fuel by switching off the 
engine if the idle time is longer than 20 seconds.
187Other things to keep in mind when trying to save fuel:
 • Speed: Speed between 70 to 90 km/h saves fuel, so you should avoid driving at any speed 
exceeding 100 km/h when trying to save fuel
 • Acceleration: Avoid strong acceleration
 • Constant speed: Try to drive at a constant speed by using cruise control as much as possible
 • Excess weight shedding
 • Tire pressure: Check tire pressure regularly
 • Rear window heating: It uses about 0.7 liters of fuel per 100 km, and it should only be used 
if the rear window is foggy, and it must be ensured that it has not been started by mistake.
 • Air conditioner: Never set it to too low, in addition to operating the recirculation air button, 
and always close the windows when the air conditioner is on.
 • Windows: Close the windows when driving at 60 km/h due to the air resistance
 • Short distances: Avoid driving short distances and use alternative means of transportation 
including bike, public transportation, walking, etc.
 • Use the correct fuel for the vehicle
 • Avoid rush hours and traffic jams as much as possible
 • Go straight away after starting the car. 
Eco-friendly behaviors
 • Washing the car in a special washing station with the aim of recycling the water
 • Maintain the car regularly - when doing the oil change at home, use a container to collect old 
oil and dispose of it in the correct way and do not allow it to contaminate the floor
 • Car sharing: As many people as possible in one car
 • Install a purifier in the car, if possible
 • Buying a fuel efficient car
188
Unit Six: 
Transcendence and General Behavior
189

1901. Driving near vehicles and stationary objects 
Driving near stationary objects such as parked vehicles, (groups) of people, or (herds of animals).

191Do not pass:
 • If other road users are obstructed or endangered
 • In the event of causing damage to fixed objects
 • When people exit or enter railway vehicles on one side of the road

192How to drive near fixed vehicles/obstacles:
Remember 
Do you remember how to change course? 
This is similar to that!

193How to drive near fixed vehicles/obstacles:
If there is an obstacle in your path:
Look: What is this? What happened? 
Evaluate: Is there a movement coming? Is there enough space for passage? 
Decide: Decide to either pass or stop. 
Act:  As per your decision: Move (start) or stop 
Driving near the obstacle:
Mirrors: Check your interior and left side mirrors to see vehicles behind you (may be about to 
overtake or walk right behind you) 
Signal: Give a left signal
Shoulder: Check the blind spot on the left side of your vehicle. 
Speed: Adapt the speed (speed up if the obstacle can be crossed quickly, or slow down if the obstacle 
is narrow) 
Move:  Move to the left side and make sure there is enough sideways distance to pass the obstacle.
Drive smoothly!

194
Remember 
Remember that the driver whose road is 
open on his right side has the right of way!

195Driving near parked vehicles:
 • Be sure to move away from the side of parked vehicles
 • (at a speed of 50 km/h, you need a distance of about one meter)
 • On a two-way road, you may have to slow down or stop when there is traffic coming from the 
other direction.
 • Pay attention and be careful of vehicles that are about to move.
 • The required lateral distance depends on the driving speed, the faster you are, the greater the 
distance between you and parked vehicles.
 • At a speed of 50 km/h, one meter is a safe side distance, which is an approximation of the 
space needed to open the vehicle door.

1962. Overtake moving vehicles
Overtake vehicles traveling in the same direction on the same road.

197Overtake vehicles on the right-hand side of the road in the following cases:
 • If the driver in front of you indicates that he intends to turn left
 • If the road is divided into more than two lanes heading in the same direction, 
The driver on which the others pass , 
the driver on which the others pass:
 • It must not increase its speed
 • He must drive on the far right side of the road
 • He must indicate to the other driver that he can 
overtake him
 • He must reduce his speed if he is overtaken by 
a group of vehicles
Remember 
usually, other vehicles must be overtaken 
on the left side of the road. You may 
1983. Overtaking prohibitions
 • At intersections and railway lanes
    
 • At pedestrian crossings

199Overtaking is prohibited:
•	 On bridges
•	 On curved roads and on dangerous curves 
•	 On slippery roads
200Overtaking is prohibited:
 • At the end of the highways
 • In the opposite direction to other vehicles

201Overtaking is prohibited:
 • In cases where visibility on the roads is insufficient or weak
     

202Overtaking is prohibited:
 • When there is a traffic light indicating “No overtaking”
 • When there are solid lines between the tracks

203Overtaking is prohibited:
 • When you cannot drive (significantly) faster than the vehicle in front of you
 • If the speed limit is exceeded
 • If a vehicle in front of you begins to overtake another vehicle in front of it
 • If a vehicle behind you begins to overtake your vehicle, 
Remember 
as you can see, that there are many things that 
must be taken into account when overtaking. So 
remember not to try to overtake another vehicle if 
you are in doubt.
2044. Requirements for overtaking safely 
Before overtaking. 
1. Check your speed, you need an appropriate speed difference compared to the speed of 
the vehicle you are trying to overtake (good difference: A difference of at least 20 km/h 
but not exceeding the speed limit). 
2. Check the space next to the vehicle you want to overtake, you need to maintain a safe 
side distance and make sure that the vehicle in front of you does not start to overtake 
another vehicle.
3. Check the mirrors and look over your shoulder to make sure you are not being overtaken 
by another vehicle.
4. Check the road ahead, so that it is not obstructing oncoming traffic and you must be able 
to pass the vehicle without any imminent danger (no curves, crossings, obstacles, etc.). 
5 Make sure that there is space on the right side of the road to return to it after passing 
the vehicle in front of you.

2055. The issue of overtaking 
Compare the issue of overtaking with the issue of passing over fixed objects.
What is the difference? 
Why could overtaking be more dangerous?

206Before overtaking 
See (Look): Speed? Way ahead of you? Space to go back to the right lane? 
Assess: Is overtaking allowed? Is it safe? 
Decide: Decide if you want to overtake or stay behind within a safe distance. 
Act:  According to your decision: Either overtake (start MSSSM) or slow down 
How to overtake a vehicle ahead:
Mirrors: Check the left and side mirrors to see the vehicles behind you (because they may start to 
overtake you) 
Signal: Give a signal to the left 
Shoulder: Check the blind spot on the left side of the vehicles next to your vehicle 
Speed: Accelerate (Exceed the speed as quickly as possible without exceeding the speed limit) 
Move:  Move to the left side. Make sure to leave enough lateral space for the vehicle you are overtaking 
and then drive smoothly! 
Return to the right path: Turn right when you can see the vehicle you have overtaken in the interior 
mirror and ensure to drive smoothly!

207Ensure that all the preparations and procedures are in place for safe overtaking – when in doubt, 
alert the vehicle ahead by beeping your horn before starting to overtake.
Warning signs:
 • Use the horn
 • Use a flashing front light for your 
For your notes:
2086. Stopping the vehicle 
Using the vehicle’s lights and signals
 • Dashboard lights
 • Clear view 
Parking the vehicle
 • Pause
 • Stopping the vehicle and continuing to park for a short and limited period.
Parking
 • Stop the vehicle and leave it parked.
    

209Stopping 
Parking in places where vehicles are allowed to be parked, the vehicle is parked either on the side of 
the road or on the side of the sidewalk parallel to it, unless there is a sign indicating the possibility of 
parking in another way.
 • Parallel to the side of the road or on the side of the sidewalk parallel to it
 • In another way, if there is a sign indicating this.

210Vehicle parking markers 
Traffic lights 
This signal indicates that parking is prohibited and the prohibition ends at the first turn after the 
signal, and this area is painted yellow.
 • This sign means: Waiting is allowed, no parking is allowed
 • This sign means: No standing or waiting
211Vehicle parking limiters
 • On public streets, the parking area is painted yellow
 • If the lines are white, it means that there are no restrictions on stopping vehicles

212Vehicle parking limiters
 • It is forbidden to stop the vehicle at pedestrian crossings and on the sidewalk and less than 
one and a half meters from the crossing place of schoolchildren.

213Vehicle parking limiters
 • It is prohibited to park the vehicle at a distance of 20 meters or less from tunnels, and at a 
distance of 20 meters or less from bridges, and on bridges 
Limits for parking the vehicle.
 • It is forbidden to park vehicles at any turn
 • On top of the road
 • At the crossroads
 • on the sidewalk
 • garage 

214It is forbidden to stop the vehicle at intersections
 • At a distance of less than 15 meters from a traffic light
 • At a distance of less than 15 meters from the bend

215It is forbidden to stop the vehicle
 • At a distance of less than 7 meters from the fire hydrant
 • In front of entrances or exits
 • It is forbidden to park the vehicle in the places designated for a certain category of vehicle
    

216It is forbidden to stop the vehicle
 • In the opposite direction of traffic
 • In the middle of the road 
If a motorway vehicle breaks down, it should be parked off the road, if possible. In the daytime, the 
disabled vehicle must be equipped with well visible warning signals. At night, red lights must be 
placed on it to avoid collisions with other vehicles.
 • On public roads outside the city, if parked vehicles pose a danger to public safety

2177. Using vehicle headlights 
Headlights (emitting white lights)
 • Position lights (vehicle stop lights)
 • Low beams (intersection lights)
 • High beams
 • Fog lights (only on some vehicles)
    

218Taillights
 • Rear lights that emit red light
 • Fog tail lamp
 • The brake lights (stop lights) 
Emit a white light
 • Reverse lights (only when the transmission is in the reverse (“R”) position
 • Number plate lights
     

219Why is it important to use vehicle headlights? 
Because you want to see everything well at night and you also want others to see you, right?

220Vehicle headlights usage rules
 • At night, 
drivers must use the vehicle‘s headlights while driving at night, regardless of whether the 
road is equipped with general lighting or not.
 • During the day, 
drivers must use the vehicle‘s headlights during the day in the event of thick fog or sandstorms 
obscuring vision.

221Position lights (vehicle parking) with taillights

222Low beams (vehicle headlights) with taillights 
Drivers must use low beams
 • When driving on highways
 • In cases where the use of high beams is prohibited, and the positioning lights do not provide 
sufficient visibility, but the driver must be able to see clearly and far ahead.
 • When the positioning lights are not sufficient to allow other road users to see the vehicles in 
time and at a sufficient distance.
 • If there are vision problems or fog is present and the vehicle is not equipped with fog lights.

223High Beams with Taillights 
Remember 
that high beams will annoy others! So 
use regular lights in case you have others 
on the road!
224It is forbidden to use high beams in cities
Within city limits, 
 • drivers must use regular lights 
on roads outside the city
 • In the event that there are other vehicles on the opposite side, the driver must turn off the 
high beams at a sufficient distance to enable the driver of the oncoming vehicle to easily 
follow his lane without any danger.
 • If you are driving your vehicle less than 50 meters behind other vehicles
 • In all cases that may cause great inconvenience to other road users
 • In all cases that may cause great inconvenience to users of a waterway or railway parallel to 
the road.
For your notes:
225Tail lights with rear fog light
Taillights with rear fog light Rear fog lights should only be used when there is fog, snow, or heavy 
rain.
Make sure it’s not too bright to bother others!   
Remember 
rear fog lights can be very bright, so use 
them only when there are no vehicles 
driving directly behind you!

226Other lights
Front fog lights
Drivers of vehicles equipped with fog lights must use these lights in the event of fog, snowfall, or 
heavy rain
Rear lights (red taillights)
 • On roads without general lighting at night
 • On roads without general lighting during the day when there is fog, heavy rain, or sandstorm 
Flashing lights 
It is forbidden to use flashing lights without permission from the Traffic Department
Red reflective lights or devices 
It is forbidden to use red reflective lights or devices from the center of the vehicle to the front of the 
vehicle 
White lights 
The use of white lights from the center of the vehicle to the rear is prohibited, except: Number plate 
lights 
triple reflector reverse lights 
Truck drivers must place one or more triple deflectors (each side 30 cm long) on the road behind the 
truck and on the left side of the truck if it is parked at night out of town on public roads.
227Signal lights 
Brake lights (stop lights) 
These bright red lights appear every time you depress the 
brake pedal 
Reverse lights 
These white lights appear when you’re driving in reverse 
Remember 
signal lights are important for communicating 
with other road users!
228Signal lights
Turn signal lights (blinking)
Each time you start the blinker, the three yellow colors of the turn signal appear.
Hazard warning lights (blinking) 
The vehicle has 6 hazard warning lights.

2298. The red control lamp dashboard lights mean:
You must stop immediately! 
Have a look at your vehicle manual.
The yellow control lamp means:
There is something not right. Inspect the vehicle as soon as possible and don’t ignore it for too long! 
Green control lamp means:
This tells you it’s all right.

230Fuel Indicator
This is your fuel indicator, showing you how much fuel is still in your tank. You must fill the fuel tank 
when the indicator is at a quarter of the tank in order to avoid running out of fuel while you are on 
the road because this puts your life and the lives of others at risk.

2319. Clear view 
Left key:
Central button fan direction adjustment:
Central key:
Air circulation inside the vehicle (e.g. when driving in tunnels.) 
Central switch:
Fan intensity adjustment 
Central button 
Rear window heating 
 

232Right key:
Temperature adjustment:
Central button 
The air conditioner purifies the air and extracts water vapor.
 
 
Remember 
to get rid of the fog on the front window, turn all 
the switches clockwise to the far right!
233
We wish you 
safe driving!
